ON THOSE CLOUDY DAYS, Robert Neville was never sure when sunset came, and
sometimes they were in the streets before he could get back.
If he had been more analytical, he might have calculated the approximate time of their arrival;
but he still used the lifetime habit of judging nightfall by the sky, and on cloudy days that
method didn’t work. That was why he chose to stay near the house on those days.
He walked around the house in the dull gray of afternoon, a cigarette dangling from the corner
of his mouth, trailing threadlike smoke over his shoulder. He checked each window to see if any
of the boards had been loosened. After violent attacks, the planks were often split or partially
pried off, and he had to replace them completely; a job he hated. Today only one plank was
loose. Isn’t that amazing? he thought.
In the back yard he checked the hothouse and the water tank. Sometimes the structure around
the tank might be weakened or its rain catchers bent or broken off. Sometimes they would lob
rocks over the high fence around the hothouse, and occasionally they would tear through the
overhead net and he’d have to replace panes.
Both the tank and the hothouse were undamaged today. He went to the house for a hammer
and nails. As he pushed open the front door, he looked at the distorted reflection of himself in
the cracked mirror he’d fastened to the door a month ago. In a few days, jagged pieces of the
silver-backed glass would start to fall off. Let ‘em fall, he thought. It was the last damned
mirror he’d put there; it wasn’t worth it. He’d put garlic there instead. Garlic always worked.
He passed slowly through the dim silence of the living room, turned left into the small
hallway, and left again into his bedroom.
Once the room had been warmly decorated, but that was in another time. Now it was a room
entirely functional, and since Neville’s bed and bureau took up so little space, he had converted
one side of the room into a shop.
A long bench covered almost an entire wall, on its hardwood top a heavy band saw; a wood
lathe, an emery wheel, and a vise. Above it, on the wall, were haphazard racks of the tools that
Robert Nèville used.
He took a hammer from the bench and picked out a few nails from one of the disordered bins.
Then he went back outside and nailed the plank fast to the shutter. The unused nails he threw
into the rubble next door.
For a while he stood on the front lawn looking up and down the silent length of Cimarron
Street. He was a tall man, thirty-six, born of English-German stock, his features undistinguished
except for the long, determined mouth and the bright blue of his eyes, which moved now over
the charred ruins of the houses on each side of his. He’d burned them down to prevent them
from jumping on his roof from the adjacent ones.
After a few minutes he took a long, slow breath and went back into the house. He tossed the
hammer on the living-room couch, then lit another cigarette and had his midmorning drink.