Then, suddenly, he drew in a quick breath. Bracing himself, he pushed himself up to a sitting
position. He refused to let himself collapse at the burning pain that exploded in his chest. Teeth
grating together, he stood up on his feet. For a moment he almost fell, but, catching his balance,
he stumbled across the floor on vibrating legs he could hardly feel.
He fell against the window and looked out.
The street was filled with people. They milled and stirred in the gray light of morning, the
sound of their talking like the buzzing of a million insects.
He looked out over the people, his left hand gripping the bars with bloodless fingers, his eyes
fever-lit.
Then someone saw him.
For a moment there was an increased babbling of voices, a few startled cries.
Then sudden silence, as though a heavy blanket had fallen over their heads. They all stood
looking up at him with their white faces. He stared back. And suddenly he thought, I’m the
abnormal one now. Normalcy was a majority concept, the standard of many and not the standard
of just one man.
Abruptly that realization joined with what he saw on their faces—awe, fear, shrinking
horror—and he knew that they were afraid of him. To them he was some terrible scourge they
had never seen, a scourge even worse than the disease they had come to live with. He was an
invisible specter who had left for evidence of his existence the bloodless bodies of their loved 
ones. And he understood what they felt and did not hate them. His right hand tightened on the
tiny envelope of pills. So long as the end did not come with violence, so long as it did not have
to be a butchery before their eyes
Robert Neville looked out over the new people of the earth. He knew he did not belong to
them; he knew that, like the vampires, he was anathema and black terror to be destroyed. And,
abruptly, the concept came, amusing to him even in his pain.
A coughing chuckle filled his throat. He turned and leaned against the wall while he
swallowed the pills. Full circle, he thought while the final lethargy crept into his limbs. Full
circle. A new terror born in death, a new superstition entering the unassailable fortress of
forever.
I am legend.