THE HANDS of all the four thousand electric clocks in all the Bloomsbury Centre's four thousand rooms marked twenty-seven minutes past two.
"This hive of industry," as the Director was fond of calling it, was in the full buzz of work.
Every one was busy, everything in ordered motion.
Under the microscopes, their long tails furiously lashing, spermatozoa were burrowing head first into eggs; and, fertilized, the eggs were expanding, dividing, or if bokanovskified, budding and breaking up  into whole populations of separate embryos.
From the Social Predestination Room the escalators went rumbling down into the basement, and there, in the crimson darkness, stewingly warm on their cushion of peritoneum and gorged with blood-surrogate and hormones, the foetuses grew and grew or, poisoned, languished into a stunted Epsilonhood.
With a faint hum and rattle the moving racks crawled imperceptibly through the weeks and the recapitulated aeons to where, in the Decanting Room, the newly-unbottled babes uttered their first yell of horror and amazement.
The dynamos purred in the sub-basement, the lifts rushed up and down.
On all the eleven floors of Nurseries it was feeding time.
From eighteen hundred bottles eighteen hundred carefully labelled infants were simultaneously sucking down their pint of pasteurized external secretion.
Above them, in ten successive layers of dormitory, the little boys and girls who were still young enough to need an afternoon sleep were as busy as every one else, though they did not know it, listening unconsciously to hypnopædic lessons in hygiene and sociability, in class-consciousness and the toddler's love-life.
Above these again were the playrooms where, the weather having turned to rain, nine hundred older children were amusing themselves with bricks and clay modelling, hunt-the-zipper, and erotic play.
Buzz, buzz!
the hive was humming, busily, joyfully.
Blithe was the singing of the young girls over their test-tubes, the Predestinators whistled as they worked, and in the Decanting Room what glorious jokes were cracked above the empty bottles!
But the Director's face, as he entered the Fertilizing Room with Henry Foster, was grave, wooden with severity.
"A public example," he was saying.
"In this room, because it contains more high-caste workers than any other in the Centre.
I have told him to meet me here at half-past two."
"He does his work very well," put in Henry, with hypocritical generosity.
"I know.
But that's all the more reason for severity.
His intellectual eminence carries with it corresponding moral responsibilities.
The greater a man's talents, the greater his power to lead astray.
It is better that one should suffer than that many should be corrupted.
Consider the matter dispassionately, Mr. Foster, and you will see that no offence is so henious as unorthodoxy of behaviour.
Murder kills only the individual–and, after all, what is an individual?"
With a sweeping gesture he indicated the rows of microscopes, the test-tubes, the incubators.
"We can make a new one with the greatest ease–as many as we like.
Unorthodoxy threatens more than the life of a mere individual; it strikes at Society itseff.
Yes, at Society itself," he repeated.
"Ah, but here he comes."
