When everyone was seated and quiet, Het Masteen made formal introductions.
Although the Consul knew none of the others from personal experience, several of the names were familiar and he used his diplomat's long training to file away identities and impressions.
To the Consul's left sat Father Lenar Hoyt, a priest of the old-style Christian sect known as Catholic.
For a second the Consul had forgotten the significance of the black clothing and Roman collar, but then he remembered St Francis Hospital on Hebron where he had received alcohol trauma therapy after his disastrous first diplomatic assignment there almost four standard decades earlier.
And at the mention of Hoyt's name he remembered another priest, one who had disappeared on Hyperion halfway through his own tenure there.
Lenar Hoyt was a young man by the Consul's reckoning - no more than his early thirties - but it appeared that something had aged the man terribly in the not too distant past.
The Consul looked at the thin face, cheekbones pressing against sallow flesh, eyes large but hooded in deep hollows, thin lips set in a permanent twitch of muscle too downturned to be called even a cynical smile, the hairline not so much receding as ravaged by radiation, and he felt he was looking at a man who had been ill for years.
Still, the Consul was surprised that behind that mask of concealed pain there remained the physical echo of the boy in the man - the faintest remnants of the round face, fair skin, and soft mouth which had belonged to a younger, healthier, less cynical Lenar Hoyt.
Next to the priest sat a man whose image had been familiar to most citizens of the Hegemony some years before.
The Consul wondered if the collective attention span in the Worldweb was as short now as it had been when he had lived there.
Shorter, probably.
If so, then Colonel Fedmahn Kassad, the so-called Butcher of South Bressia, was probably no longer either infamous or famous.
To the Consul's generation and to all those who lived in the slow, expatriate fringe of things, Kassad was not someone one was likely to forget.
Colonel Fedmahn Kassad was tall- almost tall enough to look the two-meter Her Masteen in the eye - and dressed in FORCE black with no rank insignia or citations showing.
The black uniform was oddly similar to Father Hoyt's garb, but there was no real resemblance between the two men.
In lieu of Hoyt's wasted appearance, Kassad was brown, obviously fit, and whip-handle lean, with strands of muscle showing in shoulder, wrist, and throat.
The Colone!
's eyes were small, dark, and as all-encompassing as the lenses of some primitive video camera.
His face was all angles: shadows, planes, and facets.
Not gaunt like Father Hoyt's, merely carved from cold stone.
A thin line of beard along his jawline served to accent the sharpness of his countenance as surely as blood on a knife blade.
