His hand stirred under hers.
“Don’t—let it get—” He coughed up blood.
“Don’t let it get—too brutal.
Too heartless.”
“What can I—” she started, then stopped.
She smiled at him.
“I’ll try,” she said.
He couldn’t go on.
The pain was getting worse.
It twisted and turned like a clutching animal
in his body.
Ruth leaned over him.
“Robert,” she said, “listen to me.
They mean to execute you.
Even though you’re wounded.
They have to.
The people have been out there all night, waiting.
They’re terrified of you,
Robert, they hate you.
And they want your life.”
She reached up quickly and unbuttoned her blouse.
Reaching under her brassiere, she took
out a tiny packet and pressed it into his right palm.
“It’s all I can do, Robert,” she whispered, “to make it easier.
I warned you, I told you to go.”
Her voice broke a little.
“You just can’t fight so many, Robert.”
“I know.”
The words were gagging sounds in his throat.
For a moment she stood over his bed, a look of natural compassion on her face.
It was all a
pose, he thought, her coming in and being so official.
She was afraid to be herself.
I can
understand that.
Ruth bent over him and her cool lips pressed on his.
“You’ll be with her soon,” she murmured hastily.
Then she straightened up, her lips pressed together tightly.
She buttoned the two top buttons
of her blouse.
A moment longer she looked down at him.
Then her eyes glanced at his right
hand.
“Take them soon,” she murmured, and turned away quickly.
He heard her footsteps moving across the floor.
Then the door was shutting and he heard the
sound of it being locked.
He closed his eyes and felt warm tears pushing out from beneath the
lids.
Good-by, Ruth.
Good-by, everything.
Then, suddenly, he drew in a quick breath.
Bracing himself, he pushed himself up to a sitting
position.
He refused to let himself collapse at the burning pain that exploded in his chest.
Teeth
grating together, he stood up on his feet.
For a moment he almost fell, but, catching his balance,
he stumbled across the floor on vibrating legs he could hardly feel.
He fell against the window and looked out.
The street was filled with people.
They milled and stirred in the gray light of morning, the
sound of their talking like the buzzing of a million insects.
He looked out over the people, his left hand gripping the bars with bloodless fingers, his eyes
fever-lit.
Then someone saw him.
For a moment there was an increased babbling of voices, a few startled cries.
Then sudden silence, as though a heavy blanket had fallen over their heads.
They all stood
looking up at him with their white faces.
He stared back.
And suddenly he thought, I’m the
abnormal one now.
Normalcy was a majority concept, the standard of many and not the standard
of just one man.
Abruptly that realization joined with what he saw on their faces—awe, fear, shrinking
horror—and he knew that they were afraid of him.
To them he was some terrible scourge they
had never seen, a scourge even worse than the disease they had come to live with.
He was an
invisible specter who had left for evidence of his existence the bloodless bodies of their loved 
ones.
And he understood what they felt and did not hate them.
His right hand tightened on the
tiny envelope of pills.
So long as the end did not come with violence, so long as it did not have
to be a butchery before their eyes
Robert Neville looked out over the new people of the earth.
He knew he did not belong to
them; he knew that, like the vampires, he was anathema and black terror to be destroyed.
And,
abruptly, the concept came, amusing to him even in his pain.
A coughing chuckle filled his throat.
He turned and leaned against the wall while he
swallowed the pills.
Full circle, he thought while the final lethargy crept into his limbs.
Full
circle.
A new terror born in death, a new superstition entering the unassailable fortress of
forever.
I am legend
