Silenus laughed.
'Does that mean nothing can get at us or that, when something does get at us, we'll have no way to get out?"
'Where would we go?" asked Sol Weintraub.
'Where indeedT' said the Consul.
He was very tired.
He lifted his gear and took one handle of the heavy M6bius cube, waiting for Father Hoyt to lift the other end.
'Let's do what Kassad says.
Find a space to spend the night.
Let's at least get out of this room.
It stinks of death."
Dinner was the last of their dried rations, some wine from Silenus's last bottle, and some stale cake which Sol Weintraub had brought along to celebrate their last evening together.
Rachel was too little to eat the cake, but she took her milk and went to sleep on her stomach on a mat near her father.
Lenar Hoyt removed a small balalaika from his pack and strummed a few chords.
'I didn't know you played,' said Brawne Lamia.
'Poorly."
The Consul rubbed his eyes.
'I wish we had a piano."
'You do have one,' said Martin Silenus.
The Consul looked at the poet.
'Bring it here,' said Silenus.
'I'd welcome a Scotch."
'What are you talking about?" snapped Father Hoyt.
'Make sense."
'His ship,' said Silenus.
'Do you remember our dear, departed Voice of the Bush Masteen telling our Consul friend that his secret weapon was that nice Hegemony singleship sitting back at Keats Spaceport? Call it up, Your Consulship.
Bring it on in."
Kassad moved away from the stairway where he had been placing tripbeams.
'The planet's datasphere is dead.
The comsats are down.
The orbiting FORCE ships are on tightbeam.
How is he supposed to call it?"
It was Lamia who spoke.
'A fatline transmitter."
The Consul moved his stare to her.
'Fatline transmitters are the size of buildings,' said Kassad.
Brawne Lamia shrugged.
'What Masteen said made sense.
If I were the Consul... if I were one of the few thousand individuals in the entire damn Web to own a singleship . . .
I'd be damn sure I could fly it in on remote if I needed it.
The planet's too primitive to depend on its comm net, the ionosphere's too weak for shortwave, the comsats are the first things to go in a skirmish... I'd call it by fatline."
'And the size?" said the Consul.
Brawne Lamia returned the diplomat's level gaze.
'The Hegemony can't yet build portable fatline transmitters.
There are rumors that the Ousters can."
The Consul smiled.
From somewhere there came a scrape and then the sound of metal crashing.
'Stay here,' said Kassad.
He removed a deathwand from his tunic, canceled the tripbeams with his tactical comlog, and descended from sight.
'I guess we're under martial law now,' said Silenus when the Colonel was gone.
'Mars ascendant."
'Shut up,' said Lamia.
'Do you think it's the Shrike?" asked Hoyt.