The third figure did not actually appear so much as allow its presence to impinge upon my consciousness; it was as if it always had been there and King Billy and I had failed to notice it until the flames grew bright enough.
Impossibly tall, four-armed, molded in chrome and cartilage, the Shrike turned its red gaze on us.
King Billy gasped, stepped back, and then moved forward to feed more cantos to the fire.
Embers rose on warm drafts.
A flight of doves burst from the vine-choked girders of the broken dome with an explosion of wing sound.
I moved forward in a motion more lurch than step.
The Shrike did not move, did not shift its bloody gaze.
'Go!" cried King Billy, stutter forgotten, voice exalted, a blazing mass of poetry in each hand.
'Return to the pit whence you came!'
The Shrike seemed to incline its head ever so slightly.
Red light gleamed on sharp surfaces.
'My lord!" I cried, although to King Billy or the apparition from hell I did not know then and know not now.
I staggered the last few paces and reached for Billy's arm.
He was not there.
One second the aging King was a hand's length from me and in the next instant he was ten meters away, raised high above the courtyard stones.
Fingers like steel thorns pierced his arms and chest and thighs, but he still writhed and my Cantos burned in his fists.
The Shrike held him out like a father offering his son for baptism.
'Destroy it!" Billy cried, his pinned arms making pitiful gestures.
'Destroy it!'
I stopped at the fountain's edge, tottered weakly against the rim.
At first I thought he meant destroy the Shrike... and then I thought he meant the poem... and then I realized that he meant both.
A thousand pages and more of manuscript lay tumbled in the dry fountain.
I picked up the bucket of kerosene.
The Shrike did not move except to pull King Billy slowly back against his chest in an oddly affectionate motion.
Billy writhed and screamed silently as a long steel thorn emerged from his harlequin silk just above the breastbone.
I stood there stupidly and thought of butterfly collections I had displayed as a child.
Slowly, mechanically, I sloshed kerosene on the scattered pages.
'End it!" gasped King Billy.
'Martin, for the love of God!'