The dog had dug itself under the folds of the blanket and there it was still shaking, whining
ceaselessly.
No use trying to work on it now, he thought; it’s too frightened.
He walked back to the bed and sat down.
He ran his hands through his hair and then put them
over his face.
Cure it, cure it, he thought, and one of his hands bunched into a fist to strike
feebly at the mattress.
Reaching out abruptly, he turned off the light and lay down fully clothed.
Still lying down, he
worked off his sandals and listened to them thump on the floor.
Silence.
He lay there staring at the ceiling.
Why don’t I get up?
he wondered.
Why don’t I
try to do something?
He turned on his side.
Get some sleep.
The words came automatically.
He knew he wasn’t
going to sleep, though.
He lay in the darkness listening to the dog’s whimpering.
Die, it’s going to die, he kept thinking, there’s nothing in the world I can do.
At last, unable to bear the sound, he reached over and switched on the bedside lamp.
As he
moved across the room in his stocking feet, he heard the dog trying suddenly to jerk loose from
the blanketing.
But it got all tangled up in the folds and began yelping, terror-stricken, while its
body flailed wildly under the wool.
Neville knelt beside it and put his hands on its body.
He heard the choking snarl and the
muffled click of its teeth as it snapped at him through the blanket.
“All right,” he said.
“Stop it now.”
The dog kept struggling against him, its high-pitched whining never stopping, its gaunt body
shaking without control.
Neville kept his hands firmly on its body, pinning it down, talking to it
quietly, gently.
“It’s all right now, fella, all right.
Nobody’s going to hurt you.
Take it easy, now.
Come on,
relax, now.
Come on, boy.
Take it easy.
Relax.
That’s right, relax.
That’s it.
Calm down.
Nobody’s going to hurt you.
We’ll take care of you.”
He went on talking intermittently for almost an hour, his voice a low, hypnotic murmuring in
the silence of the room.
And slowly, hesitantly, the dog’s trembling eased off.
A smile faltered
on Neville’s lips as he went on talking, talking.
“That’s right.
Take it easy, now.
We’ll take care of you.”
Soon the dog lay still beneath his strong hands, the only movement its harsh breathing.
Neville began patting its head, began running his right hand over its body, stroking and soothing.
“That’s a good dog,” he said softly.
“Good dog.
I’ll take care of you now.
Nobody will hurt
you.
You understand, don’t you, fella?
Sure you do.
Sure.
You’re my dog, aren’t you?”
Carefully he sat down on the cool linoleum, still patting the dog.
“You’re a good dog, a good dog.”
His voice was calm, it was quiet with resignation.
After about an hour he picked up the dog.
For a moment it struggled and started whining, but
Neville talked to it again and it soon calmed down.
He sat down on his bed and held the blanket-covered dog in his lap.
He sat there for hours
holding the dog, patting and stroking and talking.
The dog lay immobile in his lap, breathing
easier.
It was about eleven that night when Neville slowly undid the blanket folds and exposed the
dog’s head.
For a few minutes it cringed away from his hand, snapping a little.
But he kept talking to it
quietly, and after a while his hand rested on the warm neck and he was moving his fingers
gently, scratching and caressing.
He smiled down at the dog, his throat moving.
“You’ll be all better soon,” he whispered.
“Real soon.”
The dog looked up at him with its
dulled, sick eyes and then its tongue faltered out and licked roughly and moistly across the palm
of Neville’s hand.
Something broke in Neville’s throat.
He sat there silently while tears ran slowly down his
cheeks.
In a week the dog was dead
